1. Change the root password from the default that you got from Digital Ocean. (WHY: They emailed this password to you in plaintext. Anyone watching network traffic could have seen that and would then know the root password to your machine. This means they could log in as root over SSH. The root user has all priveleges, so they could do anything they wanted to your machine.) Even if you disable password login, if they managed to login as a regular user (maybe one of your users accidentally exposes their public key) then they have the root password and so could switch to the root account using `su root`. Once again, they would become `root` and so do anything to your machine

2. Create a user account for yourself. Make a good strong password and don't lose it! (WHY: Generally, you want to log in as a normal user. Because the root user can do anything, it's very dangerous to login as root... if you mistype one little command you could potentially destroy your whole system)

3. Add your user new account to the `sudo` group (you need to stay logged in as root to do this). (WHY: You won't be logging in as root anymore, but it's your machine and you'll need root privileges to edit certain system files or run certain commands. Adding yourself to the `sudo` group means that you can put `sudo` in front of a command to run that command with root privileges... see Chapter 5 of The Linux Command Line for details. You have to be logged in as the root user in order to do this) You use the `usermod -a -G sudo your_username` command for this... the `-a` option says you want to add something to a user account, and the `-G` option says it's a group you're adding

4. *From the shell on your own computer* (i.e. log out of your server or else open another terminal window) generate a private/public key pair and send the public key to your user account on the server using the `ssh-copy-id` command. This will prompt you for the password to your user account, because it has to temporarily connect to your server and add files to the home folder on your server (WHY: We're setting things up so that you log into your server using key-based authentication instead of password-based authentication. This is much more secure, and also convenient because you don't have to type a password when you login)

5. *Back on your server* Run `sudo nano /etc/ssh/sshd_config`. This opens the file in the `nano` text editor. You have to use `sudo` because this file is owned by the `root` user. Find the line that says `PubkeyAuthentication` and make sure it says `yes` not `no`. `ctrl-O` saves the file, and `ctrl-X` quits the editor. (WHY: There is a program running in the background on your server called the "ssh daemon". This program listens for outside requests to connect to your server over ssh. We need to configure this program to allow public key authentication.)

6. *From the shell on your computer* Verify that everything is working by trying to connect to your server over `ssh` with your user account (i.e. `ssh username@ip-address`). It should not prompt you for a password. See video if it does

7. *Back on your server*: Assuming that you can now log in to your user account using public key authentication, edit the `sshd_config` file again (see above). Find the line that says `PasswordAuthentication yes` and change the `yes` to `no`. Find the line that says `PermitRootLogin yes` and change the `yes` to `no`. Save and quit. (WHY: Public key authentication is far more secure than password authentication. Now that we have it working, we want to disable password authentication. Now people can't point password guessing bots at our server and try to break in. We're also explicitly disallowing people from trying to log in as root over ssh. We really really don't want anyone to get root access to our server. This may be overkill if we've already disabled password login and never added any authorized keys for the root user account, but it doesn't hurt to be extra sure and anyway we should make the config file say exactly what we want.)
